# CMSE410_FinalProject
Final Project for CMSE 410 Reproducing Figure 1: A Comparison of Tissue Specificity in Orthologs and Paralogs
This repository contains all of the work for my final project for CMSE410

The initial purpose of this project was to reproduce the first figure from Nadezda Kryuchkova-Mostacci and Marc Robinson-Rechavi’s research on the conservation tissue specificity between orthologs and paralogs. Their work set out to determine the truth of the “ortholog conjecture”, which proposes that “functional similarity between orthologous genes is higher than between paralogs'' (1).   In the first figure of their paper, Kryuchkova-Mostacci and Robinson-Rechavi performed  a Pearson correlation of tissue-specificity between orthologous and paralogous genes, so as to analyze the differences in evolution of specificity after duplication (paralogs) or without duplication (orthologs) (1).  Results from this figure allowed them to show that tissue-specificity was highly conserved between organisms, which had important implications for the conservation of tissue specificity in evolution.

I had wanted to look to reproduce the same figure as an intellectual challenge in a manner I have not experienced before. As someone with very limited research experience, the concept of pulling data and using it to make scientific statements through figures is new to me and would pose as a new type of project. I have had experience coding linear regression models and making similar scatterplots, and so I believed that I would have the skills necessary to create the figure even if my understanding of it was limited at the first look. The scope of the problem never really changed - my goal was always to reproduce the same figure. At the start of the semester this took mostly the form of trying to import and understand the data, which in the midterm I was trying to build the necessary functions. Near the end of the semester is when I was finally able to produce my figure and then discovered that there may have been flaws in my initial functions.

link to original paper: https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005274

1. Kryuchkova-Mostacci N., Robinson-Rechavi M. (2016) Tissue-Specificity of Gene Expression Diverges Slowly between Orthologs, and Rapidly between Paralogs. PLOS Computational Biology 12(12): e1005274. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005274 https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005274

